Let's talk about currying now currying is the technique of translating the evaluation of a function
that takes multiple arguments.
Into evaluating a sequence of functions each with a single argument that sounds pretty confusing doesn't
it.
Well you can't think of currying like this.
You take a function that can take multiple parameters and instead use incurring modify it to a function
that takes one parameter at a time let's have a look at an example.
I can create a function.
Multiply in this multiply takes a and b as parameters and we're just going to multiply a and b if I
do multiply three times four I should get twelve.
Nice and easy.
How can we use currying here well.
Remember we want to change the function from taking multiple parameters to taking a parameter at a time
we can do something like this.
I can say const curried multiply and we're going to take a parameter which is going to return another
function that takes another parameter and that is going to multiply A times B because of closures we
have access inside of the B function to the a variable and make sure I say const here.
There you go.
Now how can we use this.
Well I can now say curried multiply four or less to five times three if I run this.
Well no that doesn't work.
Remember because this is Curry It takes one parameter at a time.
So instead I'm going to create five which is going to give us the first variable in the way that I like
to look at Aero functions is that I can mimic how the function is written in the way that I call the
function.
So I see two brackets here with a and b.
So I can call it with a and b.
So if I do three here and run.
There you go.
I get 15 so I'm giving the function one parameter at a time but why is this useful.
I can now create multiple utility functions out of this.
For example I can say const code multiply by five which is going to equal this creed multiply with the
parameter of five.
So that now I've called this function once and this function for the rest of its time or at least this
function is going to remember this piece of data five for well forever until we finish running the program
so that let's say 10 years from now we finally remember oh we have this code multiply by five function
I can use the multiplied by five function and multiply anything that we want by five let's say four
five run this I get twenty and instead of running this function over and over I've run it once and now
this code multiply by five is there for us to use.
So if it's a function that gets called many many times we only run this part of the function once which
is really really cool incurring almost reminds you of those methods.
Right on prototypes that were shared amongst objects.
They're trying to save on memory or at least the amount that our computers has to work now that we have
seen occurring.
Let's go to the next topic that gets often confused with curry.
I'll see in the next one.
Bobby.